The President: Happy
New Year, everybody.
I am fired up for the year
that stretches out before us.
That's because of what we've
accomplished together
over the past seven.
Seven years ago, our
businesses were losing
800,000 jobs a month.
They've now created jobs
for 69 straight months,
driving the unemployment
rate from a high of 10%
down to 5%.
Seven years ago, too many
Americans went
without health insurance.
We've now covered more
than 17 million people,
dropping the rate of the
uninsured below 10% for the
very first time.
Seven years ago, we were
addicted to foreign oil.
Now our oil imports
have plummeted,
our clean energy
industry is booming,
and America is a global
leader in the fight against
climate change.
Seven years ago, there were
only two states in America
with marriage equality.
And now there are 50.
All of this progress
is because of you.
And we've got so
much more to do.
So my New Year's resolution
is to move forward on our
unfinished business
as much as I can.
And I'll be more frequently
asking for your help.
That's what this American
project is all about.
That's especially true for
one piece of unfinished
business, that's our
epidemic of gun violence.
Last month, we remembered
the third anniversary
of Newtown.
This Friday, I'll be
thinking about my friend
Gabby Giffords, five years
into her recovery from the
shooting in Tucson.
And all across America,
survivors of gun violence
and those who lost
a child, a parent,
a spouse to gun violence are
forced to mark such awful
anniversaries
every single day.
And yet Congress still
hasn't done anything to
prevent what happened to
them from happening
to other families.
Three years ago,
a bipartisan,
commonsense bill would have
required background checks
for virtually everyone
who buys a gun.
Keep in mind, this policy
was supported by some 90% of
the American people.
It was supported by a
majority of NRA households.
But the gun lobby
mobilized against it.
And the Senate blocked it.
Since then, tens of
thousands of our fellow
Americans have been mowed
down by gun violence.
Tens of thousands.
Each time, we're told that
commonsense reforms like
background checks might
not have stopped the last
massacre, or the
one before that,
so we shouldn't do anything.
We know that we can't stop
every act of violence.
But what if we tried
to stop even one?
What if Congress did
something - anything - to
protect our kids
from gun violence?
A few months ago, I directed
my team at the White House
to look into any new actions
I can take to help
reduce gun violence.
And on Monday, I'll meet
with our Attorney General,
Loretta Lynch, to
discuss our options.
Because I get too many
letters from parents,
and teachers, and kids, to
sit around and do nothing.
I get letters from
responsible gun owners who
grieve with us every time
these tragedies happen;
who share my belief that the
Second Amendment guarantees
a right to bear arms; and
who share my belief we can
protect that right while
keeping an irresponsible,
dangerous few from
inflicting harm
on a massive scale.
So, I know there are a bunch
of us who care about this.
If you are one of
them, I need your help.
Change is always going
to take all of us.
The gun lobby is loud,
and well-organized in its
defense of effortlessly
available guns for anyone.
The rest of us are going
to have to be just as
passionate and
well-organized in our
defense of our kids.
That's the work
of citizenship.
To stand up and fight for
the change that we seek.
I hope you'll join me in
making America safer for all
of our children.
Thanks everybody.